Contact Information
Name: Clinton Thai
Student No: 3840992
Student Email: s3840992@student.rmit.edu.au

Personal Information

Once again, my name is Clinton Thai. I have half Vietnamese and Chinese blood flowing through my veins.
In 2018, my family and I moved here to the wonderful city of Melbourne, Australia.
However, I was actually born and raised in the suburb of Mangere which is located in Auckland, New Zealand.
Since my move to Melbourne, I have completed VCE in 2018, 2019, and then started of tertiary schooling
by studying a Bachelors of Computer Science in 2020, 2021, and then transferred to Bachelors of IT in 2022.
I am able to speak three languages, English!, Vietnamese and Teochew (Chinese Dialect).
Outside of studying, there are many things that I enjoy. Most of my spare time is spent either with my partner,
or on my PC playing games. Back in the day, I played a lot of CS:GO, and so when Valorant was released, I played
a lot of that to this day. I also enjoy going to the gym and shooting some hoops at the local courts!
Let me introduce you to my pet dog named Yoshi, which is an Australian Shepherd breed and he is a bit special! (insert picture)

Interest in IT

What is your interest in IT? When did your interest in IT start?
Was there a particular event or person that sparked your interest? Outline your IT experience (if any).

Personally, my interest in IT is within software development, testing and possibly data analytics!
My interest in the IT field actually derives from when I was a young child. My uncle introduced me to PC gaming,
where from there I eventually learnt how to build a PC, and then ended up actually doing it myself.
My love for gaming and technology was nurtured due to my early exposure to it.
Since then, I have been the 'tech' guy in my family and friend groups, whereby if there are any
technology related issues, they would come to me for assistance.
Fast-forward to VCE, I decided to take Units 1-4 of Software Engineering, where I learnt how to code in Java
and followed the software engineering process to create my own basic software (which was very bad), but I learnt a lot!

Why did you choose to come to RMIT?

There are multiple reasons why I chose RMIT.
First of all, just from open days as well as word of mouth, RMIT seemed to have the best courses for the IT field.
RMIT just seemed like the perfect option for me, because I wanted to get into a Bachelors of Computer Science,
which I luckily did successfully so.
Another big reason as to why I chose RMIT was that the location is very easy to get to for me (One train ride),
as well as being in the center of the Melbourne CBD.

What do you expect to learn during your studies?

Prior to the commencement of my studies, I expected to learn mainly just the Software Development process,
as well as a bunch of coding languages. What surprised me though was that in Computer Science,
there are (surprisingly) a lot of science related subjects that go hand-in-hand with computers.
Some examples of science-y classes that I completed was Discrete Structures (Maths) and
Intro to Data Analytics (Python and Statistics).

Ideal Job
https://www.seek.com.au/job/56272037

Milanote is offering the position of a Full Stack Developer.
What that means to me is that I will be able to work
using the software development methodology (Analysis, Design, Development, Evaluation)
to create or work on an existing product for the company.
This includes front-end, back-end and deployment using AWS of said application.
This position offer intrigued me in the sense that the company is a small startup
with great people, meaning that I will be hopefully be able to collaborate very closely
and form great bonds with everyone. I also have some minimal experience in React and Javascript,
as I was a tester for the group project within the class Software Engineering: Processes and Tools.
Finally, the pay is also very attractive at $140k-$170k a year plus super too. This also relates to
them stating that the hours are quite flexible, and everyone sometimes goes out for team bondings.

The skills required are Javascript/React for the Front-end development.
The back-end skills required are MongoDB, Node/Express, Redis, Sockets and REST/API Design.
As for the deployment of the application, they use AWS Architecture as well as for security.
There are other important skills as well, such as turning front-end performance using JS Profiling,
experience in Functional Programming and Sass. Although all these various skills are listed,
they say that the candidate is not required to know all of it as they are open to teaching the skills,
which is also what makes the job opportunity attractive too.

Currently, I am not that experienced in Full Stack Development.
I only have experience in Java development, as well as a bit of Python and C++.
In terms of testing, I kind of know how to do it for the back-end using JUnit
as well as in the front-end using Jest. I also have a bit of experience in regards to
Javascript and React as I worked as the tester for a group project.

I plan on gaining the skills required as well as experience by working on my own personal projects
in my own spare time, as well as trying to find entry-level software development jobs possibly
in my final year of study or when I've graduated. It is best for me to learn while doing.

Personal Profile
